index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Hello World!
tagline: Supporting tagline
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Read [Jekyll Quick Start](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/usage/jekyll-quick-start.html)

Complete usage and documentation available at: [Jekyll Bootstrap](http://jekyllbootstrap.com)

## Update Author Attributes

In `_config.yml` remember to specify your own data:
    
    title : My Blog =)
    
    author :
      name : Name Lastname
      email : blah@email.test
      github : username
      twitter : username

The theme should reference these variables whenever needed.
    
## Sample Posts

This blog contains sample posts which help stage pages and blog data.
When you don't need the samples anymore just delete the `_posts/core-samples` folder.

    $ rm -rf _posts/core-samples

Here's a sample "posts list".

<ul class="posts">
  {% for post in site.posts %}
    <li><span>{{ post.date | date_to_string }}</span> &raquo; <a href="{{ BASE_PATH }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>

## To-Do

This theme is still unfinished. If you'd like to be added as a contributor, [please fork](http://github.com/plusjade/jekyll-bootstrap)!
We need to clean up the themes, make theme usage guides with theme-specific markup examples.

Commit message:

Adding some of my content

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Danny Staple
tagline: About Me
---
{% include JB/setup %}
I am proudly a Computer Geek - running the company <a href="http://odmsolutions.co.uk">ODM Solutions Ltd</a> where I specialise in  automation and developer tools. I like Python and Linux, but use whatever is needed.

I am shamelessly into robots, and run robotics shop at <a href="http://orionrobots.co.uk">Orion Robots</a>. I tinker with the Arduino, electronics, Raspberry Pi and many things I can get my hands on - I was the kind of kid that took everything apart.

I am a father of two great kids.

I love SciFi, and some Fantasy. As films, books and plays - I read a lot.

I play computer games, build stuff with Lego, grow plants occasionally and muse about all things.

I am a bit of a foodie - although I'd like to be a lighter one!

I have some interest in ethics, philosophy and politics - but try not to get too hung up about them as most people have already made up their minds and cannot change. My closest political description is I am passionate skeptic - I like things that are evidence based, and generally let people be. Believe what you want - just don't make it my problem.

This site collects together musings I have once written on other sites, and will collect those I write that are related to neither robots or computer programming.

<ul class="posts">
  {% for post in site.posts %}
    <li><span>{{ post.date | date_to_string }}</span> &raquo; <a href="{{ BASE_PATH }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
